 Hi there, I'm Dr. Gallagher. Nice to meet you. This is Dobby. This is Dobby. Oh, hey buddy.
 Okay, so before we start, I was going to ask you, are you okay if I record the appointment?
 It basically turns our discussion into my paperwork for later.
 Awesome. Okay, you want to sit down? Hi good boy.
 Okay, so Dobby is a three-year-old male neutered sheepadoodle who's here for a checkup.
 So what's been going on with him? Um, He's like super healthy.
 I just noticed that he was biting one of his bones and there's blood on his gums like more than I would expect.
 Okay, so what we'll do today is we'll check him over from nose to tail and then I will assess his mouth last
 because that's usually the most offensive part when we've got something going on in there.
 Otherwise, he's eating good. There's no concerns there. No, he's super healthy.
 No vomiting or diarrhea? No. Good. And what kind of bone was it? Like a big rawhide or? I don't know.
 Okay, a pretty hard one I'm assuming. Well, yeah, he's had like with some of the harder bones,
 like we kind of just swapped them out if he does bleed from them, but I really don't remember what one he got at.
 Okay. All right. So just looking at his face, his eyes are nice and clear.
 His ears have some hair in them bilaterally, but there's really no redness, no debris.
 His lymph nodes feel normal up here. He seems well hydrated. Like I said, we'll look at his mouth last.
 He has a nice healthy hair coat. You're a really fluffy guy, aren't ya? Yeah, he needs a haircut.
 Okay, his mobility is good. He's getting around okay? Yeah, he's running. Great.
 Okay buddy, wait faster than me.
 Heart and lungs sound great. His heart rate's normal, about 80 beats a minute, and his lungs sound nice and clear.
 He's got some panting going on. I'm sure he's a little stressed. Yeah.
 He's got a great body condition, nice and lean. I call him a five out of nine.
 I can still feel his ribs really well. He's got a nice taper to his waist.
 Do you want that? Yeah, so we want to be able to feel the ribs with a slight covering.
 We want to have a nice kind of taper, a nice tuck up from the belly.
 Do you want to stand up, buddy? Oh honey, I think he's in a good weight.
 Oh yeah. Good boy. Nice guy. He's fit. He's like mom, stop it.
 Good boy. I've got cream on. Anytime I have cream on, it's like he's looking good.
 He's always licking, huh? Lots of dogs like cream. Yeah. Ok.
 His belly feels nice and comfortable. He has good, strong pulses in his back legs.
 His lymph nodes feel normal here. He's well muscled. He said he's a good runner.
 I'm sure he's got good mobility here. Yeah, that's a good range of motion.
 Good job, buddy. So well behaved.
 And then we weighed him on the way in. He was, what, 30.9 kilograms today?
 That's great. That's an acceptable body. That's times 2.2.
 So he'll be like 68-ish pounds.
 Okay, and otherwise, his skin looks good. I don't see any signs of inflammation.
 So let's have a look at that mouth. Hi. I know, this part is really hard, huh, buddy?
 It's okay, honey. It's okay. I know what he likes their teeth looked at.
 Okay, so that side looks okay. Just a bit of tartar on the left premolar IV.
 I know. Is this the side you don't want us to have a look at?
 Okay, we're going to look real quick. Okay. Good boy.
 Okay, so I do see that he has a slab fracture over his right premolar IV.
 So that's a carnassial tooth, the big chewing tooth on the right side of the mouth.
 And that tooth can be fractured when they're chewing a really hard bone.
 So their jaw is just not really made to do that.
 So what I would suggest, usually when they're fractured, if they're fractured right up to the gum line,
 we do recommend extracting that tooth because bacteria can track up that fracture,
 can cause an abscess over the tooth root, and can lead to more inflammation and an infection in the mouth.
 So what I can do is I can get you a dental treatment plan to go over the cost of that,
 and we can schedule him in for that extraction.
 And then I would definitely avoid hard bones in the future.
 I think for right now, if he's eating well, he's not seeming super painful over that tooth,
 I think we're probably okay to monitor until we can get him in for his dental.
 Okay. Do you recommend like a soft bone? Or like?
 So what we recommend is the veterinary dentists recommend anything that you can manipulate.
 So if you're able to bend it and flex it, then it's okay for them to chew.
 Another rule of thumb, which, you know, we don't always talk about, but
 is basically if it's too hard to smack against your leg, then it's too hard for them to chew.
 But not everybody wants to do that one.
 So I always like to go by the manipulation of, like, so the Kong toys are quite good because they're rubber
 and they can still get that chewing action, but we're not going to get any breaking of any big teeth, okay?
 Okay.
 Okay, great. So I'll pop out and get that treatment plan, and then we can go from there.
 Perfect. Thanks.
 Okay. No problem.
 Dr. Gallagher.