 Oh, totally.
 Yeah, totally fine.
 We're playing the paper with you.
 Yeah, we take our dogs.
 Okay.
 So, I guess, kind of, um, with heartworm and I guess that's just because it may change
 the preventative that we choose.
 Um, if you are, have you heard of heartworm before?
 Yeah.
 I've always had my dogs on Heartgard.
 I'd love to see whatever she should be on.
 Yeah, no, and that's totally fine.
 We carry Heartgard.
 Um, we also have a product that's just a three month flea tick out.
 And heartworm prevention that you can get once a month.
 Um, I think if you're going to be traveling, bringing her places, I think it's safer to
 get her on heartworm prevention.
 If you want to hold off and just do fleas and ticks, that's fine.
 Um, I mean, if it's already worn, we might as well do that and we'll just start her
 in like two weeks from now.
 Yeah, that's fine.
 Um, the only thing with heartworm is we should do a heartworm test today.
 Um, just to make sure she's negative.
 Just a little bit of blood.
 You know, just a quick, quick, rapid result.
 Just want to make this a nice, happy, experience, best I can.
 It's her first vet visit and you're going to do that?
 We'll go slow.
 She's improving.
 I mean, if it's possible though, if you can get her into the spay, can't we just go in
 one week?
 It could, yeah, if you're not going to start.
 Because if I'm not going to start for at least two weeks, I think it's unlikely she's going
 to get her first spay in two weeks.
 But, um, if you want to hold off and just...
 I think so.
 Just for her sake to not make this horrible today.
 Yes.
 So then, maybe what I'll do is, um, I really don't want to write the prescription without
 knowing she's heartworm.
 That's okay.
 So...
 I'll be back.
 You'll be back.
 When she's here for the spay, we'll do the heartworm test.
 Assuming it's negative, she can go home with heartworm prevention
 And flea tick
 That's fine.
 Yep.
 Cool.
 That sounds good.
 Ok, Perfect.
 Um, so in terms of vaccination, she's going to be hopefully going to dog parks, being
 around other dogs, um, so in terms of vaccines that we give almost every dog, it'd be rabies
 required by law.
 Don't they have to be three to get rabies?
 12 weeks.
 Really?
 Yeah, Yeah
 So, we can give her the rabies vaccine today.
 Um, it'll be good for a year, and then in a year, we'll give another one that's good
 for three years.
 Yep.
 So, the first one we gave was just...
 three years.
 Same thing with distemper combo.
 We're going to do that today.
 We'll give it to every dog.
 Do you think that's a lot for her to get all at one time?
 I think it's okay.
 Um, she is a smaller dog, so I would say if we're concerned about possible vaccine reactions,
 which we don't know.
 Right.
 That's what I'm thinking.
 I like to stop at two.
 Um, so I feel comfortable getting rabies with distemper combo today.
 Let's do that.
 Um, so we'll do that.
 Other ones that we can do, we can just space it out.
 If you want to do it, but typically, I like to space it out by two weeks.
 If you come back just as a tech appointment to do other ones.
 Other ones I'd like to talk about would be Leptospirosis.
 Have you heard of that?
 Yeah.
 Are you interested?
 I think we've always done that one.
 So, in two weeks.
 Plus, if you travel, you're just supposed to anyway.
 Yes, exactly.
 I think that's really smart.
 We see it enough around here to where I recommend it for every dog.
 Um, so we'll do lepto.
 We can get you scheduled for a tech appointment on the front row to check out, put you on
 the books.
 So, it's just nice and easy.
 Bring her in.
 Um, bring her back.
 We'll get her back soon.
 That's that.
 Um, and the other one would be Bordetella.
 I'm trying to think.
 I think Bordetella.
 Well, that's only if you're going to take her with a groomer.
 Yeah, if you're going to take her to kennels.
 We're not going to do that.
 We're not going to do that.
 Yeah.
 So, for now, if that's a change, we can always get that.
 Absolutely.
 I think that's totally appropriate.
 And kind of in the same line would be dog flu.
 We don't really see it a ton around here.
 If there is an outbreak, I may tell you.
 That's what I've done in the past, too.
 So, let's get a lock on that one, as well.
 Great.
 Um, so I know she's new to you guys, but how is her energy level been?
 How do you think she's doing?
 She's adjusting very quickly to me for a dog and what she was like when we, she'd never seen grass.
 She sat her down outside and she would just like stick it up like a board and like pee.
 I mean, that was that bad.
 And she explores the whole yard.
 Everything's getting really good except she's horrified when people come in.
 It's better.
 Like in this situation, you know, she's nervous, but we don't, when someone enters
 The house.
 We think maybe they sold her a few times.
 Yeah.
 We think it happened a couple of times.
 We even brought her back because she was nervous.
 I've been like around the clock with her.
 Oh my gosh.
 So I think it's like an insecurity thing, like a very insecure.
 She hasn't quite figured out she lives forever with us, but I think she kind of was getting there.
 Yeah.
 She can tell you guys are different.
 Yeah, I do.
 I really think so.
 I think she's quick.
 Yeah.
 It sounds like you guys are easing her in okay.
 We're trying.
 But not me.
 She doesn't growl, doesn't bark.
 That much.
 Good.
 The only time she's, I don't know if it was growling, but she made noise when new people came in the house.
 She's like, yeah.
 More like I'd rather go hide in a corner and make that noise.
 Not, anything.
 Yeah.
 And that's something that hopefully actually gets more comfortable.
 Should get better.
 You can always, you know, ask friends to come over.
 Just like slowly get on top of it.
 Yeah, we've been doing all this time.
 All the neighbors do shifts a lot.
 Babysitters coming.
 She's going to be sick.
 We're trying.
 Okay, good.
 Sounds like you guys are open to suggestions for sure.
 I think you guys are doing all the right stuff.
 Have you noticed anybody vomiting in their diarrhea?
 No.
 We switched our food slowly.
 We moved over to Hill's Science Diet.
 Perfect.
 I think it's the perfect
 It has the little Doxin on the front.
 Beautiful.
 She's eating better.
 Okay.
 Something more regular, you know, on that.
 Yeah.
 The only treats we've given her so far were chicken, like raw chicken and eggs.
 Okay.
 So we just bought some treats here.
 We just didn't know.
 Perfect.
 Yeah.
 No, I think that's totally smart.
 You can start adding things as she's tolerating it.
 What's your feeling on making the dog's food? How do you feel about that?
 Um, I think it's...
 It's a lot of effort, a lot of work to do it right.
 If you're interested in doing that, I would...
 If you're going to follow the textbook, I would recommend consulting a veterinary nutritionist.
 There's a lot of recipes you can find online.
 Many of them are okay and many of them are not.
 balanced.
 Yeah.
 And it's hard to know which is which.
 Yeah.
 It's almost thinking of just supplementing.
 So she's got a little bit of hard food.
 Yeah.
 And that's really fine.
 And sometimes what I'll recommend for clients is if you want to cook for her awesome, just add in, you know, maybe 25 to 50% of that being kibble.
 Okay.
 As well.
 So if you want to do like chicken rice veggies, that's fine.
 Just mix in some kibble.
 So make sure that she's getting those vitamins and minerals that she needs.
 And they said she was getting a quarter pound morning and night.
 Quarter cup.
 Does that sound...
 Quarter cup and supplementing with chicken and?...
 Yeah.
 I think it's okay.
 I typically, to be blunt, I look at the bag.
 Okay.
 So I look at the bag.
 Sometimes the bag overestimates.
 Okay.
 Just from looking at her, she looks like she's at a good weight right now.
 Yeah.
 I think she's a little over 10 pounds.
 Yeah.
 If she starts getting a little chunky, we may say let's back her off.
 But since we kind of don't know what her metabolism is going to do, I think that's a very fair place to start.
 Okay.
 Did you have any other questions? Is that everything we talked about we were worried about? I don't know, microchip and...
 Yeah, we'll check the microchip for sure.
 And I saw a nail trim.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 We can get that done.
 And just making sure her anal glands look okay.
 I'm sure she's had nothing done.
 Okay.
 You know.
 Have you noticed any scooting?
 She just did.
 Yes, she just did.
 Yeah, yesterday was the first time outside she scooted a little bit.
 I can do that in the back just so it doesn't get stinky in here.
 I'll check her anal glands, if she did that.
 Okay.
 And let's see.
 You said she's been scratching a little bit.
 Yeah.
 And we'll check again.
 I'm going to make sure I get to that.
 I want to look at her too, obviously.
 Appetite's okay, sending good speed.
 Got it.
 And she's getting more comfortable? Yep.
 Okay.
 Great.
 Any medications or supplements that she's on?
 Okay.
 And she's had nothing.
 Okay.
 All right.
 Well, let me take a look at her now.
 All right.
 And that's fine.
 I'll just look from afar.
 And we'll look from in here.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 What a good girl you are.
 Can you take a peek at your mouth?
 A little bit of tartar.
 We just bought her a toothbrush.
 Oh, good.
 Good, good.
 She's already got.
 I know, I know.
 That was the other thing.
 I didn't know if you did like when they spayed.
 Typically, we like to keep it separate just because it extends.
 I'll just work on brushing her teeth then.
 Yeah.
 Do that as much as you can.
 There's some calculus on there.
 Toothbrushing probably won't get the calculus off, but it will help prevent more from forming.
 So, that'd be great if you could start being consistent with that.
 To be honest, she's a small dog.
 She may need a dental cleaning.
 There are other dogs in the first teeth cleaning.
 I think they pulled six or seven teeth.
 And then he never lost another tooth after that.
 That first time was like...
 She has horrible mats on her ears.
 Maybe her skin's irritated from that.
 That's why you're a good girl.
 That's clean, actually.
 That's good.
 That's good, Sadie.
 Yeah, you're a good girl.
 There's a little bit of wax, but again, I can see down to the eardrum.
 Everything looks okay.
 So, she's been itching a little bit, but I don't, I'm not suspicious of an infection right now.
 Just based on how it looks in there.
 She's never been in grass, maybe it's just...
 It's very possible.
 Absolutely.
 Nope.
 She jumps..
 We've got ramps everywhere.
 Yeah, we've got ramps and we are teaching how to use them.
 But she still jumps
 Yeah, very much.
 Okay.
 Yeah, it's okay.
 You're ok, Sadie.
 It's little fast, but she is really nervous.
 Let me just feel her belly.
 Ok.
 You haven't felt any lumps or bumps right now? No.
 No, when she was brushing and she walked by, I didn't feel anything.
 Maybe I can just see her backside.
 You're being so good.
 It's so pretty.
 We've just met, huh?
 Should we hang out for a little bit before I do that? Yeah, yeah.
 Okay, sweetheart.
 Alright, she looks healthy.
 Her voice sounds good.
 Her ears look clean.
 I don't see anything up against her eyes.
 A little bit of tartar on those teeth, but I think if you start brushing, you can hopefully hold off on a dental for a few years, maybe do one to get the tartar off, and hopefully you can get her used to the brushing.
 Hopefully that's all she'll need.
 Okay, with the itching, I agree.
 I think I'm most suspicious for allergies.
 I don't see any redness, swelling, signs of infection.
 So, when we think about allergies in dogs, there's two different categories.
 Flea allergies, which it could be.
 I'm less suspicious.
 Usually what we'll see, and I don't see any fleas on her, but we'll see kind of like hair loss back here.
 They're really going after their hind end, because that's kind of where the fleas tend to be.
 And that's not really where she is.
 Exactly.
 It's mostly here.
 Mostly ears, mostly underneath.
 So, under the pin paws.
 Yes.
 Yep, pin paws.
 Classic environmental allergies.
 Like you say, she'll stop if she wants to.
 Yep.
 She'll stop.
 Just more than I'm used to seeing any of my dogs do.
 Yes, she listens, that's odd.
 Yeah.
 But yeah, so, the other ones are fleas, food, which it could be.
 Usually we'll see something different.
 But it really sounds, the places you're describing sounds like grasses.
 Yeah.
 Environmental.
 If you think it's severe enough, and this is totally kind of ball's in your court, we do have some anti-inflammations that we can prescribe.
 There's an injection that lasts four to six weeks, and we have people that come in just seasonally, so like spring or fall or whatever, and we'll just do an injection, and that's all they need for the year.
 There's also oral medications we give every day that works.
 If you guys want to just...
 We'll just keep an eye on it.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, let's do that.
 We'll just keep an eye on it and see what she does.
 Exactly.
 And you know that you've got that in your back pocket if things get worse, or if you're concerned at all, we can definitely try those medications.
 But yeah, I don't see any signs of infection, so I think the reason she's itching is just allergies.
 Yeah, we just have to get used to being outdoors.
 I know.
 We had no yard.
 It was just a little bit of dirt.
 Well, she lucked out.
 I mean, she seems like a really nice dog.
 Yeah, she does.
 She seems really nice.
 She does.
 She's so sweet.
 All right, so what I will do now to help you guys, I'll take her to treatment.
 We'll give the rabies and then just start her parvo vaccine.
 She may be a little sore.
 You guys probably know, but vaccine reactions slow down for us, since this is the first one we know of, would be swelling in the face, difficulty breathing, something like that.
 Usually we see that within the first hour or two.
 Yeah, I know.
 I kind of know.
 Yeah, they said they thought she had epilepsy.
 Yeah.
 So hopefully...
 Hopefully it was just infection.
 It never happened again.
 Yeah, hopefully that's not going to be the case with her.
 But you guys know, just come right back in or to the closest emergency hospital.
 We have injections we can give to help with some of that immune response.
 Hopefully she'll be okay.
 We'll do those two.
 I'll check her anal glands.
 I can get a spay estimate for you that they'll print out when you check out.
 Okay.
 And we'll do that.
 Yes.
 Do you think they look like they need to be done too? I would do that.
 I would do that, yeah.
 Yeah, we can do that.
 I have no idea how she is or if she knows how to talk to us.
 I've got all of our dogs.
 Okay.
 Except for her dogs.
 Except for her dogs.
 We've got big dogs.
 He did all of them.
 Doxin? No.
 Yep.
 That's fair.
 I've never tried her, but Roxy was impressive.
 Roxy was like a little mini alligator.
 Gosh, that was so funny.
 Yeah, Doxins and Pugs are usually the ones, weirdly enough, that just will not tolerate it.
 But I'll let you know how she does.
 Hopefully she'll be okay.
 She'll be fine.
 She'll be fine.
 Yeah.
 It's helpful.
 That's right.
 We'll scan for that microchip.
 Okay.
 As well, um, estimate, ear infection...
 And that should be it.
 We'll hold off on the heartworm test and hopefully take heartworm prevention.
 And the spay.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 That sounds great.
 That sounds good? Yeah.
 All right.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 No problem at all.